# gas_leakage_circuit_8051
This is a low-cost LPG leakage detector with buzzer indication and also message sending project using 8051 microcontroller .The presence of dangerous LPG leakage in the cars ,service station or in the storage tank environment can be detected using the ideal gas sensor.
Gas leakage tragedies and accidents have led to heavy losses over the years.so it is very important to detect any gas leakage and prevent any accidents.so here we propose a system to detect LPG gas leakage scenarios and provide a security alert to intended users.
In gas leakage detection using 8051 microcontroller gas sensor  is used to detect the gas,which is connected to 8051microcontroller through ADC0804.GSM is used to send message when it detects the gas in room or home The buzzer is also used to make a sound when controller detects any gas.
When gas is leak then firstly, gas sensor detects that leaked gas and then home appliences is turn off rapidly alarm or buzzer is turned on and also the exhaust fan turns on .GSM module send the message on mobile and the buzzer and exhaust is turn on until you can check out the message which is send by GSM system. It’s all make the system very useful and get faster actions to reduce any losses.
We designed a system which essentially detects LPG leakage and emphasis by measures such as SMS, Buzzer sound, LED Blink. This prototype turns out to be price effective and has a high degree of accuracy. In this system we are using 8051 microcontroller as our host. It is connected to five other modules: MQ6 gas sensor, GSM module, exhaust fan, buzzer, LED pins on one side of the gas sensor are connected to the power supply. On the other side one of the pins is connected to the analog input of the microcontroller and the other two pins are connected to the ground.
